# CSC-425 Compilers Project: Typechecker

## FINAL: Typeckecker Progress Submission
This part of the project implements two important command-line options for the B-Minor compiler. The first of which being `-resolve`, which traverses the abstract syntax tree, adding variables to a symbol table in different scopes, binding their types and referencing them from said table as they are encountered again. This part of the project modified the major AST components with `resolve()` functions including `expr_resolve()`, `decl_resolve()`, `param_list_resolve()`, and `stmt_resolve()`. Many helper functions were written in the file `scope.c`, which was used as the interface to the provided hash table data structure. The scopes are represented as a stack of hash tables that are pushed when entering and popped when leaving a stack. After name resolution and type binding, the AST can be traversed again, using the newly-binded types to perform typechecking with the command `-typecheck`. The AST is traversed in the same way as before, this time using rules defined by B-Minor's type system to determine if expressions are valid. The functions implemented include `expr_typecheck()`, `decl_typecheck()`, `param_list_typecheck()`, and `stmt_typecheck()`. Using either of these commands will not only print the total number of each error, but will also print detailed error messages that describe what went wrong and why.

## Typechecker Progress Check 1
Name resolution seems to be working pretty much completely. Each of the AST component files (`decl.c`, `expr.c`, etc.) have been modified with an appropriate `resolve()` function that checks each identifier in a certain scope to ensure that no redefinitions occur. Two new files - `scope.h` and `scope.c` serve as the interface to the program's scope, calling functions from `hash_table.c` in order to push and pop hash tables to and from a stack that represents the different scopes in the program. Currently, all instructor test cases work in terms of name resolution; they do not all exit with proper return codes because typechecking is not complete yet. Using the `-resolve` command-line option will currently print to the standard output the locality of an identifier (global, local, parameter, or if the identifier represents the name of a function prototype or implementation, updating as they are declared again), the name of the identifier, and whether it was added to, referenced from, or updated in the symbol table. Typechecking will conclude within the next week for final submission of this phase of the project.